# Controllers

- https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/controllers

## 1 - introduction:

Instead of defining all of your request handling logic as closures in your route files, you may wish to organize this behavior using "**controller**" classes. **Controllers** can group related **request** handling **logic** into a **single** class. For example, a **UserController** class might handle all **incoming** **requests** related to **users**, including showing, **creating, updating, and deleting** users. By default, **controllers** are stored in the **app/Http/Controllers** directory.

## 2 - Basic Controllers:

Let's take a look at an example of a basic controller. Note that the controller extends the base controller class included with Laravel: App\Http\Controllers\Controller.

- https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/controllers#basic-controllers

## 3 - Controller Middleware

- https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/controllers#controller-middleware

- Middleware may be assigned to the controller's routes in your route files.
- Or, you may find it convenient to specify middleware within your controller's constructor. Using the middleware method within your controller's constructor, you can assign middleware to the controller's actions:

## 4 - Resource Controllers

- https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/controllers#resource-controllers

- For example, imagine your application contains a **Photo** model and a **Movie** model. It is likely that users can **create, read, update, or delete** these resources.

- Because of this common use case, **Laravel** resource **routing** assigns the typical **create, read, update, and delete ("CRUD")** routes to a controller with a single line of code. To get started, we can use the make:controller Artisan command's --resource.

- php artisan make:controller PhotoController --resource

- **Actions Handled By Resource Controller**
- https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/controllers#actions-handled-by-resource-controller

- To quickly generate an API resource controller that does not include the create or edit methods, use the --api switch when executing the make:controller command:

- php artisan make:controller PhotoController --api

- ## 5 - Nested Resources
