# Routing

- Resource : https://laravel.com/docs/9.x/routing

## 1 - Basic Routing

- The most basic Laravel routes accept a URI and a closure.

## 2 - The Default Route Files

- The **routes/web.php** file defines routes that are for your **web interface**. These routes are assigned the **web middleware group**, which **provides** **features** like **session** **state** and **CSRF** **protection**. The routes in **routes/api.php** are stateless and are assigned the **api middleware** group.

- For most applications, you will begin by defining routes in your **routes/web.php** file.

## 3 - Available Router Methods

The router allows you to register routes that respond to any HTTP verb:
POST, GET , PUT , PATCH , DELETE

## 4 - Dependency Injection

- The declared dependencies will automatically be resolved and injected into the callback by the Laravel service container. For example, you may **type-hint** the **Illuminate\Http\Request** class to have the current **HTTP** **request** **automatically injected **into your route **callback**.

## 5 - CSRF Protection

Remember, any HTML forms pointing to **POST, PUT, PATCH, or DELETE** routes that are defined in the **web routes** file should include a **CSRF token** field. Otherwise, the **request will be rejected**. You can read more about **CSRF protection** in the **CSRF** documentation:

## 6 - Route Parameters

- Sometimes you will need to capture segments of the **URI** within your route. For example, you may need to capture a **user's ID from the URL**.

- Route **parameters** are **injected** into route **callbacks** / **controllers** based on their order - the names of the route **callback** / **controller** arguments do not matter.

## 7 - Parameters & Dependency Injection

If your route has dependencies that you would like the Laravel service container to automatically inject into your route's callback, you should list your route parameters after your dependencies.

## 8 - Named Routes

**Named routes** allow the convenient **generation** of **URLs** or **redirects** for **specific** routes. You may specify a name for a **route** by **chaining** the **name** **method** onto the **route** definition.

## 9 - Generating URLs To Named Routes

Once you have assigned a **name** to a **given route**, you may use the **route's** name when **generating** **URLs** or **redirects** via Laravel's **route** and **redirect** helper functions.

## 10 - Route Model Binding

- When injecting a model **ID** to a **route** or **controller** action, you will often **query** the **database** to retrieve the **model** that corresponds to that **ID**. Laravel **route** model **binding** provides a convenient way to **automatically** **inject** the model **instances** **directly** into your **routes**. For example, instead of injecting a **user's ID**, you can inject the entire **User** **model** instance that **matches** the **given ID**.
